RELEASE NOTE: v1.2.4
October 22, 2008

https fetches were not properly escaping shell args for curl binary execution. This is fixed.

RELEASE NOTE: v1.2.3
November 7, 2005

A typo was introduced in 1.2.2 which broke the whole release. This has been fixed.
A couple small fixes have been implemented also.

RELEASE NOTE: v1.2.2
October 30, 2005

Fixed a bug with the bugfix for the security hole.

RELEASE NOTE: v1.2.1
October 24, 2005

Fixed a few outstanding bugs and a potential security hole.

RELEASE NOTE: v1.2
November 17, 2004

Fixed a number of outstanding bugs.

RELEASE NOTE: v1.01

PHP fixed a bug with fread() which consequently broke the way Snoopy called it. This has been fixed.
Renamed Snoopy.class.inc to Snoopy.class.php for proper file extention.

RELEASE NOTE: v1.0

Added fetchform() function for fetching form elements from an html page.
For SSL support, you must have cURL installed. see http://curl.haxx.se
for details. Snoopy does not use the cURL library fuctions within PHP,
as these are not stable as of this Snoopy release.
Fixed bug with posting arrays of data.
Added status variable to track http status.
Several other bug fixes, see Changelog.
RELEASE NOTE: v0.93

A bug was fixed with redirection headers not containing the hostname, doubling up the redirection location URL.

There is also a new variable, $lastredirectaddr that contains the last redirection URL.

RELEASE NOTE: v0.92
March 9, 2000

A bug was fixed with redirection on MS web servers. Also, cookies are now passed through redirects.

This release also adds the ability to traverse html framed pages. Just set $maxframes to the recursion depth you want to allow, and results are returned in $this->results as an array. See the README for an example.

-Monte

RELEASE NOTE: v0.91
February 22, 2000

In previous versions of Snoopy, $this->header was an array containing key/value pairs of headers returned from fetched content, not including HTTP and GET headers. If a key value was the same, the old value was overwritten (Two Set-Cookie: headers for example). This was overcome by making $this->header a simple array containing every header returned. Therefore, it will now be up to the programmer to split these headers into key/value pairs if so desired.

-Monte
